Who the devil do you think you are?!
~ I am Strange.
~ Indeed.
Artillery!
Lady Pole is there.
~ Mm-hmm.
~ She doesn't see.
Why in the world would
you be sad for her?
'Because she is... beset
by such horrors.'
Lady Pole? Madam, please,
will you help me?
I am home.
I beg you... I beg you
to stop trying to persuade
Mr Strange or anyone else to
understand your predicament.
Argh!
She was not mad before the magic.
She was dead, madam.
Madam! Madam!
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Let me go! Let me go!
Norrell! Norrell!
I'll have her hanged!
~ I shall have you hanged!
~ No!
Let me go! No! No!
Quick.
No!
Oh, no!
Never have I been done
such grave injury!
What will this do to English magic?
~ I...
~ My reputation has been ruined
and my servant has been shot, sir!
Allow me to take her away. Please.
Everyone will ask why she did this!
But nobody knows who shot at you.
We may put it about that
it was a French spy.
Lady Pole may be put in an asylum.
The whole business
will be put behind us.
No breath of scandal
will attach to you.
Sir.
No!
All magicians lie. That
one more than most.
Oh, yes.
Why were you performing
Belasis's Scopus?
How long have I slept?
And where did you learn such a thing?
How can I do my work when I'm
constantly betrayed in this manner?
You taught me yourself...
in case I should come across anyone
who said they were a magician.
~ You were afraid...
~ That does not explain
why you were performing it
~ in the square.
~ Because there was...
There was magic everywhere.
No.
Who was that woman?
~ Which woman?
~ The one who shot me.
~ That was Sir Walter Pole's wife.
~ What? No. No, she was a magician.
There was power.
What was that magic?
It was mine.
It was the magic I did to bring
her back from the dead.
That was not your kind of magic.
Who else's should it be?
I confess there may have
been some irregularities
that have caused her
to take an odd turn.
An odd turn?
Perhaps you were drunk.
Have you ever known me to be drunk
in the performance of my duties?
Mr Norrell,
that place just breathed magic
and she was at the heart of it.
~ Where was it?
~ There was no place.
Depend upon it.
There was no such place.
The matter is closed, Childermass.
It is the last I will hear of it.
What happened to her?
She returned with Sir Walter.
We agreed... to say nothing further.
He wishes to send her to Bedlam,
but Bedlam is a little...
People may pay half a crown to
go to look at the lunatics there.
People will go to stare...
and people will wonder.
Horror.
I've been in the most desperate need
of you, but you've been useless.
You've been asleep for days.
Forgive me.
I am awake now.
You may allow me to take
care of Lady Pole.
I'll make certain of her.
And what about your brown jacket?
That's very sober-looking.
~ I've been getting myself
dressed since I was...
~ Yes, yes, yes - but you're married now.
This really is a bothersome thing.
It's a splendid thing!
I'm very proud of you.
Look, let me help.
I hope you do not find
home dull, Jonathan.
The gentleman at Sir Walter's house
said that once you'd tasted war,
~ you were sure to be bored at home.
~ Bored?
~ Mm.
How could one be bored? With
everything clean and just so.
And all one's books so close to hand.
And one's wife, just
there whenever one...
Thank you, Mary.
Besides, one can hardly
be bored with people
shooting at magicians
every hour of the day.
~ Hope they catch the French swine.
~ Mm.
Do you have to go back to Norrell?
I'm in the middle of
my apprenticeship, Bell.
I need Norrell.
I need to study with him and address
certain questions, which I...
require an answer to.
That is all.
I need be no more close
to him than that.
Besides, I was in the Peninsula.
~ I think I can look after myself.
~ Mm.
Hm...
You're very handsome, Mr Strange.
Although your hair does
have more grey in it
than it did before the war.
I think you are very
beautiful, Mrs Strange.
I'm terribly sorry. Er, my...
carriage was caught behind a
man driving cows in Eton Wick.
As I said, I fail to see
what good we are to do.
Magic cannot cure madness.
Well, it does no harm to try.
At the very least, the Prince
will give us his Royal Warrant.
Then we may say we do magic
by Royal Appointment...
and that is very respectable.
(His Majesty, the King.)
I am Gilbert...
I am Gilbert Norrell, Your Majesty,
of Hurtfew Abbey, Yorkshire -
the restorer of English magic and
the greatest magician of the age.
And... And I'm Your Majesty's
servant, Jonathan Strange,
of Ashfair in Shropshire.
Magician-in-Ordinary to the
army during the late war.
It is the hope of Your
Majesty's children
that our magic may afford
you some relief from your...
.. illness.
Ah...
thank you. I seem to be
very clumsy this morning.
Yes, ma'am.
Do you know a lady called Miss Grey?
No, ma'am.
Mr Strange has never mentioned
a Miss Grey to you?
No, ma'am.
You've been walking out with Davey,
have you not? Mr Norrell's man?
Oh...
I... I do not mean to pry.
He is very dashing.
He has such a thick Yorkshire
voice, you can picture him
going about the moors in
a most romantic fashion.
~ Has he mentioned the shooting?
~ Oh.
Only that it was a French spy.
Do people know who it really was?
Davey has not put it about.
He knew it was a secret.
It is that Mr Drawlight
who, begging your pardon,
cannot keep a still tongue.
She is to be put away somewhere.
They do not know where.
Thank you, Mary.
I hate to say it, Mr Strange, but
it was exactly as I had imagined.
There are still so
many misconceptions
about the kinds of magic that we do.
Only the other day, I heard
Lord Castlereagh remark
that you had, at
Wellington's insistence,
employed black magic in Spain.
Why, I corrected him of course.
I told him that we only do "modern
magic for the modern age".
Mr Strange?
I've seen statues of him in the
North and engravings in books.
I never saw a painting before.
Hm?
The Raven King.
That gentleman there
with the silvery hair -
that would seem to be one
of his fairy servants.
Yes.
Yes, and there is a unicorn
and a manticore
and other similarly
ridiculous creatures.
This is a picture of everything
that has disgraced
and crippled English magic
for the last 300 years.
What magic did you attempt?
All of Norrell's old favourites.
They did not work.
I do not consider that he
much wanted them to work.
Hm.
I was at Lady Westby's
house yesterday afternoon.
I met a young lady there who
seems to be under the impression
that you're teaching her.
Stylish girl. Not handsome,
but... very rich.
~ Really?
~ And apparently wild for magic.
Miss Grey.
She has a room decorated
with your pictures.
She told me that she's paid
you 400 guineas to be your...
To be your pupil.
Well...
.. I think I might
forget a young lady,
but I do not think I could
forget 400 guineas.
Then why has she said it?
To make me jealous? I...
What am I to say to her?
Tell her I did not receive
the 400 guineas.
Bell, you know I do not take pupils.
Norrell would have a
blue fit, for one thing.
I do not understand. I do not
understand why people must...
One does one's best, and
then, all of a sudden,
you're in the middle of a...
Do you know who shot Norrell?
~ Yes.
~ Well, then, let us not
pretend about it any more.
I hope you do not make yourself
uneasy about Lady Pole.
Please do not give
yourself any blame.
I feel I was stupid, Jonathan.
I'm not even entirely sure that I
considered that she was in fact mad.
Will you go back to the King?
Norrell will not.
Perhaps I might go back.
Perhaps I might find a
path where Norrell cannot.
Please do not do it because you think you might
be able to find a way to help my friend.
Very kind of you, but
please do not do it.
~ Well...
~ I'm finished with it, Jonathan.
It's too painful to think about.
'Of course, Mr Strange,'
my book naturally gravitates
towards Mr Norrell's
many achievements.
Chapter two concerns the
wonderful events at York,
the talking statues...
It is a good opportunity
to dispel forever
the rumour that I use
magic to do laundry.
It is a very fine book, Henry.
Lord, I've enjoyed reading it.
Forgive me, gentlemen,
I have an... appointment.
Then, of course, the
rain ships at Brest,
the sea-beacons...
~ Oh, are they finished?
~ For the purposes of the book.
There are then 15 chapters
dealing with the pernicious nature
of the magic of the past.
The remaining two detail
our hopes and suggestions
for what modern magic might achieve.
Oh, erm, Mr Murray has
given me a few more days
to come up with a final chapter
on Mr Norrell's greatest and
most prestigious challenge -
his attendance on the King.
Shame it did not work.
We may turn that to our advantage.
Mr Norrell has long held the view
that magic cannot cure madness.
Will you mention Lady
Pole in this context?
~ No.
~ We think it important to
present your trip to Windsor
as a heroic and patriotic attempt to
do magic that simply cannot be done.
Well, we did not attempt
absolutely everything.
We attempted every functioning
spell that might be applicable.
Well, perhaps there might
be spells which...
have fallen into disrepute,
or have been misreported...
I do not understand what you mean.
I think what Mr Strange
is trying to say is that,
considering the myths and
superstitions which have grown up
over the last 300 years,
it is near impossible to
extract any meaningful magic
from the way that things
used to be done at all.
Ah.
That is what you meant to
say, is it not, Mr Strange?
Yes.
Well, Your Majesty,
this has been a great pleasure.
Perhaps my tutor was right.
Worth a try, eh?
I do not see you, magician,
but I see your companion
very clearly.
With such silver hair as he has,
I ought to be able
to see him very well.
~ Your Majesty?
~ A king, say you?
Well, that's all very well,
but I am bound to observe
that I have never heard
of any of your kingdoms.
Lost-Hope?
Where is Lost-Hope?
The City of the Iron
Angels? Where is that?
I am King of Great Britain, sir,
a place everybody knows and is
clearly marked on all the maps.
Sir?
Do not be angry.
I am a king, you are a king.
Let's all be kings together.
~ Your Majesty, can you hear me?
~ I would dearly like that.
The last time I was permitted
out of these rooms
was on a Monday in 1810.
946 years ago.
Your Majesty?
Whoa! Whoa!
Whoa, whoa.
May I be of assistance, sir?
Sir?
Sir! Sir!
Let this music be the envoy
sent to summon the King.
Let this slipper be the handsel
the King shall receive.
And let the moment
of this flame's death
be the moment the King shall appear!
No! No! No!
No!
I believe this is
yours, Your Majesty.
This act will have
consequences, magician.
Where did you go, sir?
A most serious matter
has arisen, Stephen.
All our wonderful plans have
been rudely overturned,
and once again it is the stupid
magician who thwarts us.
Who was that old gentleman, sir?
Why, the King of England, of course.
I had brought him here so that
you might fulfil your destiny,
by cutting off his head
and taking his place.
But the King has 13 children, sir.
The crown would be passed
on to one of them
and certainly not to a man such as I.
No, the King's children
are all fat and stupid.
Who would wish to be governed
by such frights,
when they might instead be
governed by you, Stephen,
whose noble countenance would
look so well upon a coin?
But what should we do?
About what, sir?
The magician, Stephen.
He is our enemy.
We must destroy him utterly
and take his wife.
Oh, Stephen.
You are brilliant.
Of course, it will
be very hard to find,
but it will destroy him utterly.
What will, sir?
Moss-oak.
We must find and awaken a moss-oak.
If we use it well, the magician
will bargain her life away.
And the beauty of it is, Stephen,
he will have no notion
that he has done so.
Sir!
Why are there no spells
to cure madness, sir?
~ Because the Aureates did...
Where have you been?
~ Windsor.
~ What?!
~ I'm sure I read once that fairies
have a strong interest in madmen.
Is that true? Is it not in
Chaston? Where is Chaston?
It's on the north-westerly bookcase.
What occurred there, Mr Strange?
Windsor, Mr Strange?
Yes...
Is it your belief, Mr Norrell,
that fairies have left
England completely?
And what of mirrors?
I remember a reference
in Ormskirk to a kingdom
that lies behind reflective surfaces,
full of the most remark...
What is all this talk?
I'm sorry, but when
I was with the King...
It was agreed we could
do nothing for the King.
Yes, but you see, a very odd thing
happened with His Majesty...
Well, if you persist in doing magic
without reference to me, Mr Strange,
odd things will happen.
We must keep to our agreed plan.
We must stand together upon it.
It is more important now than
ever it was. Is that clear?
May I speak frankly, sir?
You've heard whispers
of it, I'm sure.
But when I was in the Peninsula,
after the loss of your books -
for which I am very sorry -
I performed magic which...
you might not have
considered respectable.
Magic of older times.
I'm not proud of it, sir,
but often, sir, it worked.
It may have worked in an
imperfect sort of way.
Perhaps because you
were not in England...
No, no, no, no.
This was a different sort of magic
to anything we have done up to now.
~ It felt different...
~ Things are done in times of war -
or for the furtherance
of noble causes -
which might be most regrettable
in times of peace.
I do not say you should be ashamed.
~ I do not say that.
~ You have always said that that magic -
~ the old magic - was no longer possible.
~ It is not.
But of course, there may be
remnants here and there...
I do not think these things
were remnants, sir.
Mr Strange, I have been studying
magic for 40 years.
We dare not meddle with such things.
They are only half-understood.
But surely it is precisely BECAUSE it
is only half-understood that we MUST!
If there exists a magic beyond
the magic that we do...
Then we let it alone.
We must say that modern
magic is the only way,
or we will end up beggars
in yellow-curtained tents!
This other magic,
it will not do, sir.
It will not do.
Have you read the proof
of Mr Lascelles' book yet?
No, not yet.
It is a very fine book.
It is my hope that it will establish
Norrellite magic for the modern age.
Do you understand?
Yes, I believe do.
Whoa!
You are the madhouse-keepers?
I have a letter for you.
Ah, Lady Pole. My name
is John Segundus.
This is my friend and
colleague Mr Honeyfoot.
Welcome to Starecross.
Madam.
For your own good, madam.
So, you are the lady whom Mr Norrell
brought back from the dead?
Have you been
madhouse-keepers for long?
No. Her Ladyship will
be our first... patient.
But you are doctors?
Not in the... fullest
sense of the word.
Uh!
I beg your pardon.
Oh...
There we go.
Your new lodgings, madam.
So what are you, then?
~ Well, um...
~ You are magicians.
~ I'm not.
Stephen, turn me back to London.
No, my Lady, no.
You are Norrell's men.
I am sold once more.
~ Stephen!
~ We are no friends to Mr Norrell.
Believe me when I say we are
here for your benefit, my lady,
~ and yours alone.
~ Well, then, you will let me go at once,
and not make me stay one
more moment in this place.
Stephen! Stephen, turn me back!
Stephen! No! Stephen, please!
Come back now!
Well...
Stephen!
That went very well.
Lascelles does not do you justice.
That's hardly a surprise.
I think it is most
inconvenient to him
that I did not die in the Peninsula.
Well, there's no mention at all of
the magic that you did in the war.
Everything Norrell's ever done is
puffed up to ridiculous proportions.
And the way that he tells
about Lady Pole...
If you have any sense,
you'll refuse to attach
your name to it.
He'll only write another book.
It does not matter.
I do not concern myself
with such things.
I am a magician. That is all.
You're the King's magician.
The Duke of Wellington's magician.
I am your magician, Bell.
And my own.
Anything beyond that is distraction.
I have things to discover.
Do you remember the first
spell that you did?
Yes, yes, and yes again.
I remember it perfectly well.
What do you expect me to do?
Things are as they
are. I... I'm sorry.
It seems to me we've lost sight
of why we started on this
path in the first place.
They say Napoleon is not finding
exile very much to his liking.
They say he has very little
to do, and very few hobbies.
It is as if Mr Davey and Mr Faraday
and our other great scientists
felt obliged to begin
all their lectures by expressing
their loathing of Isaac Newton.
Eh, you touched your nose.
You're moving the balls
about by magic.
A man may sneeze, Grant,
mayn't he? I have a cold.
Might the table be free?
No, it might not.
How is Lord Wellington?
The Duke, you mean? Concerned.
He's worried that Napoleon
will return.
Why did they not give you
a... baronetcy or something
when they made him Duke?
Lord Liverpool says
they considered it,
but they felt they would have
to give Norrell something, too.
~ And I don't think anyone quite has
the stomach to call him "My Lord".
~ Sirs, you are talking, not playing.
Mr Tantony and I are
from Nottinghamshire.
May we not play while you chat?
To ask a gentleman to break off
his game before it is ended, sir,
is a thing that is never
done at the Bedford.
Ah... I beg your pardon.
(I didn't know...)
Well, then, perhaps you could tell
me whether you think it will be
a short game or a long 'un.
We do not know, sir!
This is Mr Tantony's
first visit to London.
I particularly wished to
show him in the Bedford,
but I did not think to find the
people here so very disobliging.
Well, then, I can only suggest
that you return home to, er...
NOTHING-ham-shire, I
think it was you said?
Are there no pigs to be fed there?
Mr Tantony and I are not farmers.
We are brewers.
We have beer enough, thank you, sir.
We're not here to sell beer!
Mr Tantony is being
instructed in magic
by Mr Strange himself.
What?
Oh, yes.
Mr Strange writes Mr Tantony letters
full of the most remarkable advice.
Such as?
I will not tell you.
You can come to your own
arrangement with Mr Strange.
You pay Mr Strange?
Oh, yes. 70 guineas.
And you have not met him?
No, but we hope to.
We're going to go and stand
outside his house tomorrow.
What advice does he give you?
Uh...
Tell him.
Oh, yes.
Well, the other day, Mr
Tantony asked for a spell
to make it stop raining
in Nottinghamshire.
Mr Strange wrote back to say he
would never employ such magic.
He said - did he not, Mr Tantony? -
that in meddling with
English weather,
we meddled with England,
and in meddling with England
we risked destroying the very
foundations of English magic.
Have you ever said such a thing?
Yes, but not to these gentleman.
Sir, I am Jonathan Strange and I've
never heard of you before today.
You are the victims of a hoax.
Yes, indeed.
You are no more Mr Strange
than my wife is.
Well, it is easily resolved.
There are any number of magical things
my friend could do to prove it.
Oh, yes? And what might they be?
Yes, tell us, Merlin.
Good Lord!
Where did he go?
Er...
~ And how is Mr Strange?
~ Oh, busy, madam.
Busy.
But only yesterday, he inquired
most particularly after you.
I should think so.
I have paid him more
than 100 guineas, sir.
The very last of my money.
Oh, but think of the good it
will do, madam. An investment.
You see...
How thin the walls are.
You see, Jonathan Strange is...
Jonathan Strange is a...
Jonathan Strange...?!
Ah!
I hope you'll be so kind, madam,
as to forgive the lateness
of my visit.
The way was a little more meandering
than I had anticipated.
I am Jonathan Strange.
Mrs Bullworth.
At last.
I have taken the liberty of writing,
by each of their names,
the magical punishment which
I believe ought to be theirs.
But I should be glad
of your recommendations,
since you are to carry them out.
"Mrs Bullworth Senior..."
My mother-in-law.
".. to be drowned in a laundry tub.
"To be choked to death on
her own apricot preserves.
"To be accidentally baked
in a bread oven."
Forgive me, Mrs Bullworth, but even
the greatest magician who ever lived
could not kill the same person
three different ways.
Well, as much as you can manage.
And Mr Bullworth. What
should I do to him?
A disfiguring disease.
Bankruptcy. Lunacy. Fire.
A villain to lie in wait
for him and cut off his...
Mrs Bullworth...
You have been the victim
of a deception.
I have never undertaken commissions
for private individuals.
Not Gatcombe, not Tantony,
not Miss Grey.
I never even heard of
you before tonight...
and I have never employed this...
.. person.
Drawlight!
I am sorry for it, madam.
We waited several hours for him
to return from the mirror, madam,
but he did not, so we thought
we would come here and see if...
Ah, he's here, Ma'am.
He's quite safe.
Has something happened?
Blockhead.
Where on earth have you been?
Shoreditch. You were not afraid,
were you? I was perfectly all right.
I always am.
Well, tell us, where
did you disappear to?
I do not have words to describe it.
It... It is another land entirely.
Everything Norrell and
I have done is as nothing.
It is the most amazing
place I have ever seen.
Shoreditch?
Do not be flippant. Shoreditch
is where Drawlight was.
~ You have been with Drawlight?
~ Yes, he's been arranging for me
~ to do every sort of black
magic one can think of.
~ Why?
Hm. Money, I presume. He
ran away, which is a pity,
as I had a great mind to
challenge him to a duel.
~ Oh, it's duels now, is it?
~ But what happened behind the mirror?
I discovered... the King's Roads.
The ancient paths between this
land and the other realms.
They have been closed
for hundreds of years,
but now... they are open again.
That was where I went.
That does not sound
very safe, Jonathan.
Safe? Oh, no, I do not think so.
But then I flatter myself that
I am not particularly safe.
~ And when I return...
~ Oh, return?!
So, you will be losing
yourself in this place
every moment that Norrell
can spare you,
whilst I remain here in the
most miserable suspense,
wondering if I'm ever
to see you again.
~ Bell, what on earth is the matter?
~ The matter?!
You are set upon putting yourself
in the most horrible danger,
and just expect me to say nothing?
~ I was in the Peninsula...
~ I know you were in the Peninsula.
You never cease to tell me that
you were in the Peninsula.
But having been in the Peninsula,
it's not some sort of magical charm
that grants you immortality.
When I went to war, you
were perfectly composed.
I was nothing of the sort.
I was horribly afraid for you.
But then, you had a duty,
and you had the entire
British Army beside you.
There, you will be entirely
alone! I... I say "there",
but none of us know where
"there" is, do we?
I know exactly where it is.
It is the place Norrell has tried
to keep from me from the beginning.
Really, Bell, it is a little late to
decide you do not like my profession.
It was you who demanded I get one.
Do not you dare say
that to me, Jonathan.
I have never said a word
against your occupation.
Until today, you have always been content
to make your discoveries in books.
Books! I'm not permitted
to read half the books.
Bell, try to understand...
Everything that has happened to
me of late - in the Peninsula,
with the King, this evening -
it has convinced me there is more
magic possible than I ever dreamed.
You have no idea where
these paths lead.
No, and that is the glorious,
wonderful thing of it.
Promise me that you will not
go out on those roads again.
No.
Well, then I withdraw my demand.
I don't want you to have
an occupation, Jonathan.
I'll have you idle. I'll have
you the man that I married!
Damn magic to hell. Damn
where it's led us.
Well, thank you for
a pleasant evening.
Whoa, whoa.
Ah, Henry. So very
good of you to see me.
Ah, erm...
Where... Where is he?
He's at home. I've never
seen him so angry.
Let me talk to him.
Absolutely not.
You are to have no contact with him
until I tell you that you might.
If he knew I was meeting you, he
would have my head on a spike.
Norrell owes everything to me.
Without me, nobody would ever
have heard of him, or you.
There would be no book.
You could not do without me then,
and you cannot do without me now.
On the contrary. It is most
desirable that we do without you.
Damn you!
What convinced you you could succeed
in such a perfectly absurd scheme?
I should call you out here and now.
I'm sorry. The money wasn't...
for me... My...
My... My debts.
Will you please help?
I'm at the limit of my endurance.
Well, we shall see.
Where are you staying?
I'm at The Shakespeare's Head.
Go there and wait.
And if you ever risk my standing
with Norrell again -
listen to me -
I will kill you myself.
Thank you, Henry. Thank you.
On to Mr Norrell's house.
Oh, and, Lucas, take these to the
bailiffs at the King's Bench.
Tell them they're an enumeration
for the outstanding debts
of Christopher Drawlight,
and he may be found and arrested
at The Shakespeare's
Head, Covent Garden.
I've been considering the matter
very carefully - in fact,
I have thought of little else.
We must revive the Cinque Dragownes.
The what?
It is a medieval court established
to punish false magicians.
Thankfully, the medieval
law was never revoked.
But Drawlight is not a magician.
Surely a common-law court...
No. His crimes were
specifically magical crimes.
We require a magical court.
What other security do I have?
When people attack me in the street?
When other magicians
- evil magicians -
might arise to challenge my
authority, to contradict me?
I have to have a court of my own.
Mr Norrell, it is not
the duty of any court
to exalt one person's opinions
above another's.
If other magicians think
differently from you,
you must battle it out with them.
You must argue and publish
and practise your magic,
and you must learn to live as I do,
in the face of constant criticism,
opposition and censure.
That, sir, is the English way.
But the Cinque Dragownes is our
best chance of having him hanged.
Hanged?
Mr Norrell, I feel his
injury as deeply as you,
probably even more so, since
it was directed at me.
But I will not be the cause
of another man's death.
I was in the Penin...
I have been at war, sir.
I have seen enough men die.
In any case, I scarcely think Drawlight
is any more to blame than you.
Why, what have I done?
Well, what possessed you to
go out on the King's Roads?
People will think I approved
of what you did that night.
And why should you not?
It is a momentous discovery, sir.
The size of it, the complexity.
Come with me, sir. It
is a glorious sight.
Staircases so high I could
not see the top of them,
and everywhere, in the
halls, on the bridges,
carved into the very stones,
his likeness...
~ Whose?
~ The man who built it all, sir.
John Uskglass, the Raven King.
The man we have slandered in
everything we have said and done.
There is a great wealth
of magic there, sir.
We may go forth together,
you and I, and discover it.
What you did will do more to bring
English magic into disrepute
than anything Drawlight has done.
It is no surprise that
he turns out a villain.
But you - you are the Second
Magician in the land!
Why did you come to London, sir?
Why did you undertake the
restoration of English magic,
if not to DO English magic?
To make it respectable.
Good afternoon, gentlemen.
I am going home.
Is it finished, then?
Yes. I think it an
excellent little book.
Your help was invaluable, Mr Strange.
~ May I borrow it?
~ Keep it.
Please. Keep it.
Thank you.
I'm sorry for the concern
that I gave you, Bell.
I'm sorry for the things I said.
I'm sorry for any sadness
my occupation has caused.
Well, as you said,
it was I who suggested that
you get it in the first place.
You were not specific.
I had in mind, in fact, that you
might become a justice of the peace.
Or a landscape gardener.
I did not consider
that you might become
one of the greatest men of the age.
It has surprised me somewhat too.
It is published.
You were right.
If it's published, then
what are you doing?
I'm writing a review of it.
You cannot review a book
that you helped to write.
I believe I could...
if I were to say it
is an abominable book.
~ Jonathan...
~ If I say it is a fraud.
You're not in earnest.
~ Why not?
~ Because you leave yourself open to...
What would Norrell say?
You cannot publish it.
I fear I must.
Then you and I will go home.
What do you say?
My Lady, I am very sorry
you do not care for us...
~ .. but if only for your own
sake, you must eat something.
~ Untie me.
They say that you
might hurt yourself.
I'm sick of men in coats deciding
what is best for me.
I may very well hurt myself.
But I belong to no-one but myself.
Half my life, I am in chains.
The other half, I deserve to be free.
Untie me.
Stephen...
Stephen, do you have a gun?
Shoot him! Shoot these men!
No!
What are you doing here,
sir? I thought you were ill.
I am better now, and
you have Lady Pole.
~ Lead me to her, Mr Segundus.
~ Mr Childermass, please...
I have ridden a long time and I
have many questions for the lady.
Your letter asked us to take
Lady Pole into our care.
It did not say that
you would visit her.
It did not say that you
had any rights over her.
It seems to me that Mr
Norrell has done enough.
I do not know what
Mr Norrell has done.
He will not tell me. I
am here on my own account.
I am sorry, but you cannot see her.
You will take me to her now.
You may have your
ways of carrying on.
You may shut down societies,
steal people's books,
rob them of their livelihoods...
but I will NOT have you
distressing a lady, sir!
That is where it will stop!
I have this loaded with all sorts
of unpleasant bits and pieces.
And I do not expect you would
care to be shot twice
within the space of two months.
Take yourself off to your
master... and think again.
I will return.
Remember this, John Segundus.
There's less to this
lady than meets the eye.
Oh, I'm very glad I
did not have to shoot.
I could only find walnuts.
Let us get inside
and make sure Lady Pole isn't
too distressed by this.
The Edinburgh Review.
He has murdered my book!
All we have strived for!
"Gilbert Norrell Esquire And
Mr Strange promises to set out
"the current wondrous
state of English magic,
"in all its modern glory.'
"I say that if this is what
modern magic is to be,
"I do not wish to be modern.
"Give me the mysteries
and dreams of the past,
"for they shine brighter than any of
Norrell's restrictive rainy days."
That is not all, sir.
"Norrell's book reads like
a letter from my great aunt.
"Succeeding admirably in representing
"all that is most absurd,
"constipated and dull about the
blinkered Norrellite position.
"Surely magic should be magical?
"Surely magic is to dream?
"Where is the wonder
of England's past?'
"Of magic's golden age?
"There is no mention of the Raven
King, except to insult him
"and strike him low, to
purge him from what we do.
"Norrell calls this the
magic of the modern age.
"I say it is commonplace, mundane.
"I say that there is much more
to English magic than this.
"There is no mention
of the discoveries
"I have made at my peril...
"No mention of the
Raven King's Roads -
"or why they have been hidden
behind the mirrors of England.
"Norrell is too afraid to
question why The Raven King
"would do such a thing,
"too afraid to explore where
those roads might lead.
"Afraid it will take us to places
we never intended to go."
We must not let this
stand. You must not!
Do you really think the Raven King
cares what happens to England?
He does not.
He abandoned us.
Abandoned his throne,
rode out of England,
and took the best part
of English magic with him.
Surely that is enough to
mark him out as our enemy?
His magic is not gone now.
There it is, hidden
behind our mirrors.
It is coming back.
That is the magic of madness.
That is wild, cruel medieval magic.
We cannot have fairy princes ruling
England alongside generals,
dukes and mill-owners.
Such magic belongs to
an England that is dead.
And it is out of our control.
Then we must learn to control
it. We cannot simply ignore it.
Do not think me
ungrateful, sir, but...
.. I believe the period of
our collaboration is over.
It seems to me that
we are too different.
Well, in temperament, perhaps,
but we are both magicians,
and that is all either
of us cares about.
If you leave this house today,
you follow your own course.
Who are you going to talk
to, as we are talking now?
There is no-one.
We will be quite alone.
I'm sorry, Mr Norrell...
.. but ever since I came
back from the Peninsula,
it has not felt right for me
to call myself your pupil.
Well, then, we let it be
a partnership of equals.
The books that I should have lent
to you and have kept from you,
you shall have them.
We should go to Hurtfew, you and I.
You shall have the
keys to the library.
I shall not even challenge
that review.
Let it stand, let it stand.
I'm honoured, sir.
You are not usually a man
for compromise, I know.
But I think I must follow
my own course from now on.
Come, sir.
Perhaps we can do without
these, for now.
I must go back to Harley Street.
I am sorry for it, my lady.
It is ridiculous to part so, Stephen,
when we both know we will be together
again in only a few hours.
Do not be concerned about me.
I feel I shall be more
comfortable here.
I feel I shall.
Good day to you, gentlemen.
I beg your pardon...
I do not wish to give you
the wrong impression of me,
but, um...
.. may I ask you something?
What is it, sir?
What is the magic...
that surrounds you and her ladyship?
There is a rose at your mouth.
And another at hers.
I see it.
As clear as day.
What... does... that... mean?
I do not know what you
are talking about, sir.
Good afternoon.
~ I will not go out on the King's Roads again.
~ What?
We'll go back to Shropshire,
and I will cease to
do practical magic.
I will write down my
thoughts in a book.
I will become a theoretical magician.
Jonathan.
I've had enough of
these battles, Bell.
Various battles in various wars...
You were right.
We've lost sight of
why all this was done.
We've had no time to be married.
And I would like that time very much.
~ So would I.
~ I would like it to begin now.
I am sorry to disturb you,
Mrs Strange, Merlin,
but Napoleon is back.
He has landed in France.
~ He has marched upon Paris,
and he has captured it.
~ What?
The Duke wants you to
join him in Belgium.
He asks you to renew your commission.
No... I cannot, we...
~ I cannot go to war.
~ There is no choice.
The St Serlo's Blessing leaves upon
the high tide in three hours' time
with you and me on it.
I am sorry, Mrs Strange,
but your husband is
the army's magician
and we have need of him.
Goodnight.
You should do as we planned.
Go back to Ashfair.
Make it nice.
I'll be back before you know it.
No, you will not.
Not before I know it.
You are my entire life, Bell.
And you're mine, Jonathan.
Yes! I have found it.
The moss-oak is in there.
Reach in, Stephen. Take it.
That's it, Stephen. Can you feel it?
There is nothing, sir.
It wants to be born.
~ Argh!
~ Pull!
~ My fingers!
Argh!
That's it, Stephen. Strength.
Argh! Argh!
Arrrgh!
For a thousand years,
it has been waiting
to learn what form it will take.
What is that, sir?
The tears of the lady,
shed in pain.
Ah!
Beautiful.
Well?
Our conditions - how
did he receive them?
You told him what we agreed?
You told him that, unless
he publishes a retraction,
we shall be forced
to reveal what we know
of the black magic done in Spain.
You told him that under
no circumstances
~ would you accept him as a pupil...
~ No.
No, I told him none of those things.
You were right in the beginning, sir.
There can be only one
magician in England.
We must now consider
him our enemy, sir.
We must work to destroy him...
.. before he destroys us.
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org